<span id="anchor"></span>Proposal for SPOOL OF THREAD Emoji

**Submitted by: Amanda Hickman, Amberley Romo**

**Date: July 1, 2017**

<span id="anchor-1"></span>Abstract

We are requesting the addition of a SPOOL OF THREAD to the emoji
character set. Though the making, mending and wearing of textiles is a
defining characteristic of human society the current emoji character set
includes no sewing or textile related emoji. The SPOOL OF THREAD helps
fill a significant gap in the tools category.

<span id="anchor-2"></span>Introduction

The SPOOL is a cylinder, usually flanged (having a rib, or rim[^1]),
around which thread is wound for distribution and use. In addition to
thread, wire, cable, paper, film, straps or tape may also be wound onto
SPOOLS.

Though the emoji character set includes glyphs for a number of tools: üî®
üîß and üî©, there are no glyphs for the making, mending, or maintenance of
textiles. Notably, the available tool glyphs are all strongly associated
with trades traditionally dominated by men (carpentry, construction,
maintenance of machines).

Alongside the NEEDLE AND THREAD, YARN, and SAFETY PIN, this is one of
several textile proposals that fill a notable gap in the character set.

<span id="anchor-3"></span>History

We were not able to find much data on the history of the spool but the
very earliest sewing machines[^2] dating to the 1790s depended on thread
that was wound onto a spool. Some researchers date the first spools to
the mid 1700s[^3] shortly after the invention of the spinning jenny.
Nonetheless, since spools became widely available in the early 1800s,
the spool has been in active use as a core industrial building block and
consumer product. A search of Ali Baba yields over 200,000[^4] different
spool varieties available for purchase. They come in all sizes, empty or
loaded up with thread or plastic filament or welding wire, made out of
wood, metal, cardboard or plastic.

<span id="anchor-4"></span>**Names**

(Suggested short name and keywords, as in the [*Emoji
List*](http://unicode.org/emoji/charts/emoji-list.html)).

-   THREAD
-   SPOOL | BOBBIN | FLOSS

<span id="anchor-5"></span>Images

*Artwork created by Cherin Sanih*

<span id="anchor-6"></span>Selection Factors Inclusion

<span id="anchor-7"></span>A. Compatibility

We are not aware of an existing SPOOL OF THREAD emoji or icon.

<span id="anchor-8"></span>B. Expected Usage Level

<span id="anchor-9"></span>Frequency

There is nowhere in the world today where the SPOOL isn't used. Because
an emoji for SPOOL or THREAD is requested frequently (see below) and
because it has a wide range of possible alternative usages in computing,
we believe that the SPOOL will be used very widely.

<span id="anchor-10"></span>Multiple Usages

In addition to sewing thread, a SPOOL OF THREAD can indicate spools of
fishing line, wire, electric cable, or 3D printer filament ‚Äî all are
stored in the same basic manner.

In computing, SPOOLING refers to a process that combines queuing and
buffering, so a SPOOL glyph can also be used to indicate waiting line or
balancing multiple tasks.

A threaded conversation could also be represented by a SPOOL. Indeed,
many Twitter users have remarked that they'd love a glyph to represent
"thread" in a threaded conversation:

<span id="anchor-11"></span>C. Image Distinctiveness

A SPOOL is not likely to be confused with an existing emoji.

<span id="anchor-12"></span>D. Completeness

As described earlier, a SPOOL OF THREAD emoji would help fill a notable
gap in the tools category.

<span id="anchor-13"></span>E. Frequently Requested

SEWING and KNITTING, close cousins in the category of crafting, were
among the top emoji requests on Emojipedia in 2016[^5] and 2017[^6]. And
Twitter users regularly lament the absence of a spool/thread emoji.

<span id="anchor-14"></span>Selection Factors Exclusion

<span id="anchor-15"></span>F. Overly Specific

Any number of filaments can be stored on a SPOOL ‚Äî from fine threads to
industrial cables. A spool might be made of of plastic, metal, bone or
wood. The SPOOL glyph can represent any of these uses.

<span id="anchor-16"></span>G. Open Ended

We believe that, along with the SAFETY PIN, KNITTING NEEDLES, YARN, and
NEEDLE AND THREAD proposals, this proposal fills a notable gap in the
character set. Though the tools for building furniture and machines are
well represented in the tools category, the tools necessary to create
and maintain textiles are notably absent. This proposal fills that gap.

<span id="anchor-17"></span>H. Already Representable

There is currently nothing close. ‚û∞ and ‚ûø are sometimes used to
represent string or thread. üçù PASTA or üçú STEAMING BOWL emojis are
sometimes used because pasta and noodles are thread-like in appearance.
But all of these are clearly inadequate.

<span id="anchor-18"></span>I. Logos, brands, UI icons, signage,
specific people, deities

A search of the[ ](http://www.wipo.int/branddb/en/)[WIPO Trademark
Database](http://www.wipo.int/branddb/en/)*[^7]* for logos with "Image
Class: US.09.01.01" (or "thread or wool, wound or unwound") turns up
twelve hundred different logos that incorporate thread, yarn, or spools
in some way. These common household objects that are too generic to be a
trademark for any one brand.

The images we are submitting do not have any significance that would
make them

unsuitable for encoding as a character. There are no copyright,
religious, or issues that

reference anyone historic or living.

<span id="anchor-19"></span>J. Transient

There is no reason to think that humans will stop winding thread onto
SPOOLS anytime soon.

<span id="anchor-20"></span>K. Faulty Comparison

<span id="anchor-21"></span>Sort location

(Proposed sort location for the emoji in [*Emoji
Ordering)*](http://unicode.org/emoji/charts/emoji-ordering.html)

-   Object-textiles, after
    [*tool*](http://unicode.org/emoji/charts/emoji-ordering.html#tool)
    and before
    [*medical*](http://unicode.org/emoji/charts/emoji-ordering.html#tool)

<span id="anchor-22"></span>Other Information

<span id="anchor-23"></span>Author Bios

**Amberley Romo**
([*amberleyjohanna@gmail.com*](mailto:amberleyjohanna@gmail.com)) is a
software developer and avid knitter. Amberley grew up (and currently
lives in) Texas, and has been very involved in the fiber arts
communities of both Washington, DC and Austin, TX. She is passionate
about knitting as a meditative practice, and community activity.

**Amanda Hickman
**([*amanda@velociraptor.info*](mailto:amanda@velociraptor.info)) runs a
fellowship program that helps creative technologists collaborate with
journalists on storytelling and audience engagement projects. She has
been sewing since she was six years old, and cherishes the independence
afforded by mending, altering and making her own clothes.

<span id="anchor-24"></span>Character Properties

The other character properties are suggested to be defined as follows.

General Category:

Canonical Combining Class:

Bidirectional Class:

Decomposition Type:

Decomposition Mapping:

Numeric Type:

Numeric Value:

Bidirectional Mirrored:

Name:

ISO Comment:

Simple Uppercase Mapping:

Simple Lowercase Mapping:

Simple Titlecase Mapping:

[^1]: ^^ https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/flange

[^2]: ^^ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sewing\_machine\#Invention

[^3]: ^^ http://sewalot.com/sewing\_machine\_threads.htm

[^4]: ^^
    https://www.alibaba.com/trade/search?fsb=y&IndexArea=product\_en&CatId=&SearchText=spool

[^5]: ^^
    [*http://blog.emojipedia.org/top-emoji-requests-2016/*](http://blog.emojipedia.org/top-emoji-requests-2016/)

[^6]: ^^
    [*http://blog.emojipedia.org/top-emoji-requests-2017/*](http://blog.emojipedia.org/top-emoji-requests-2017/)[
    ](http://blog.emojipedia.org/top-emoji-requests-2016/)

[^7]: ^**^* http://www.wipo.int/branddb/en/*
